---
layout: single
classes: wide
title: Call for Artifact Evaluation Committee Members
sidebar:
    title: 'EuroSys 2022'
    nav: eurosys2022toc
---

We are looking for members of the Artifact Evaluation Committee (AEC), who will
contribute to EuroSys' [Artifact Evaluation](call.html) (AE) process by
reviewing submitted artifacts. AEC membership is especially suitable for
researchers early in their career, such as PhD students. Even as a first-year
PhD student, you are welcome to join the AEC, provided you are working in a
topic area [covered by EuroSys](https://2022.eurosys.org/calls/call-for-papers/)
(such as operating systems, distributed/networked systems, systems security, and
other areas of computer systems research). You can be located anywhere in the
world as all committee discussions will happen online.

As an AEC member, you will not only help promote the reproducibility of
experimental results in systems research, but also get to familiarize yourself
with research papers just accepted for publication at EuroSys 2022 and explore
their artifacts. For a given artifact, you may be asked to evaluate its public
availability, functionality, and/or ability to reproduce the results from the
paper. You will be able to discuss with other AEC members and anonymously
interact with the authors as necessary, for instance if you are unable to get
the artifact to work as expected. Finally, you will provide a review for the
artifact to give constructive feedback to its authors, discuss the artifact with
fellow reviewers, and help award the paper artifact evaluation badges.

We expect that each member will evaluate 1–2 artifacts and that each evaluation
will take around 10–20 hours. AEC members are expected to allocate time to
choose the artifacts they want to review, to read the chosen papers, to evaluate
and review the corresponding artifacts, and to be available for online
discussion until the artifact notification deadline. Please ensure that you have
sufficient time and availability for the AEC during the period from February 1st
to March 19th 2022. Please also ensure you will be able to carry out the
evaluation independently, without sharing artifacts or related information with
others and limiting all the discussions to within the AEC.

For evaluations that do not require large computing resources or special
hardware, we will ask you to perform the evaluation on your own computer (any
moderately recent desktop or laptop computer will do). For any evaluations that
you cannot perform on your own computer, we will either provide you with a cloud
VM you can use, or make arrangements with the authors to provide you with remote
access to their systems (e.g., via SSH). You will not be asked to pay for any
computing resources out of your own pocket.

How to Apply
------------

If you are interested in becoming a part of the AEC, please complete **[this
online form](https://forms.gle/1iS2e7ELceeUYUuJ6)**. Deadline: **20 December 2021**.
You can reach us at [aec-2022@eurosys.org](mailto:aec-2022@eurosys.org) with any
questions.
